# Práctica WEB Backend Node.js-MongoDB

This is the `nodepop` project, a product management application. The structure of the project and the function of each component are detailed below.

## Project Structure

### **1. controllers**
This folder contains the driver files that handle the logic for different parts of the application.
- **homeController.js**: Manage the logic of the main page.
- **loginController.js**: Handles user login functionality.
- **productsController.js**: Manages product-related operations.

### **2. lib**
Contains library files that provide utility functions and configurations.
- **connectMongoose.js**: Configuration for connection to MongoDB database using Mongoose.
- **sessionManager.js**: Manage user sessions.

### **3. models**
Contains the application's data models.
- **Product.js**: Defines the scheme and model of the products.
- **User.js**: Defines the schema and model of the users.

### **4. node_modules**
Contains all the npm packages installed for the project. It is automatically generated by npm.

### **5. public**
Folder used to serve static files such as CSS, JavaScript, and images. Currently it appears to be empty.

### **6. resources**
Contains image files used in the project.
- **barcelona.jpg**
- **shoes_ballet.jpg**
- **shoes_under.jpg**
- **short_football.jpg**
- **sin_image.jpg**
- **tshirt_girl.jpg**

### **7. views**
Contains the view templates for the application, written in EJS (Embedded JavaScript).
- **error.ejs**: Template for error pages.
- **footer.ejs**: Footer section template.
- **header.ejs**: Header section template.
- **home.ejs**: Template for the home page.
- **login.ejs**: Login page template.
- **new-product.ejs**: Template to add new products.

### **8. app.js**
The main application file that configures the Express server and middleware.

### **9. initDB.js**
Script to initialize the database.

### **10. package-lock.json**
Automatically generated file that describes the exact tree of dependencies used in the project.

### **11. package.json**
Contains metadata about the project and its dependencies.

### **12. README.md**
Markdown file that provides an overview and documentation of the project.

### **13. server.js**
The entry point of the application that starts the server.

***
***

## Deploy

### Install dependencies

```sh
npm install
```
On first deploy you can run next command to empty the database and create initial data:

```sh
npm run initiDB
```
## Start

To start in production mode:
```sh
npm start
```

To start in development mode:
```sh
npm run dev
```

## Application testing operation
### Login
On the home screen, you will see a welcome message and a link to enter and log in.
**'/login'** -> You must enter one of the following email and password

```js
Admin -> Email: 'admin@gmail.com', Password: '1234'
User -> Email: 'user1@gmail.com', Password: '1234'
```
Once logged in, each user will be able to view their products for sale.

### New Product
If you want to upload a new product for sale, you must enter the name of the product, price, an image, this is optional, if you wish you can use one of the following routes for the images or alternatively you can leave it blank as we have one default image:

```sh
T-shirt image
- path: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RamiroCovian/practica-backend-nodejs-mongodb/main/nodepop/resources/tshirt_girl.jpg'

Soccer shorts image 
- path: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RamiroCovian/practica-backend-nodejs-mongodb/main/nodepop/resources/short_football.jpg'

Ballet Shoes image 
- path: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RamiroCovian/practica-backend-nodejs-mongodb/main/nodepop/resources/shoes_ballet.jpg'

Soccer cleats image 
- path: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RamiroCovian/practica-backend-nodejs-mongodb/main/nodepop/resources/shoes_under.jpg'

Default image
- path: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RamiroCovian/practica-backend-nodejs-mongodb/main/nodepop/resources/sin_image.jpg'
```

### Delete Product

If you want to remove a product from sale, you just have to click on the trash can icon.

***
***

## Licencia
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

## Autor
Ramiro Covian

## Contacto
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ramirocovian)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/RamiroCovian)
- [Portfolio](https://ramirocovian.github.io/portfolio-RCovian/)